Hey, Connectsus Church, Pastor Mark Clark here.
Hopefully you guys are doing well up in Canada there.
For those of you who are new to Connectsus or don't know me, my name is Mark.
I grew up in Toronto and moved to Vancouver when I was about 24, got married and now we have three kids, but I was there for about 18 years, planted a church out there called Village Church and had campuses for Vancouver all the way to Toronto actually.
And then three years ago, moved down here to Sacramento, California, where I live with my wonderful wife, Aaron, and my three daughters.
And we're here.
And every once in a while, I get to preach a sermon series for your awesome church, Connectsus Church, up there.
And I'm super excited to be doing that with you for the next four weeks.
So what the series is called is God, where are you?
And this is a series that we're going to be selecting for Psalms.
So if you know anything about the Bible, the book of Psalms,
almost in the middle, and it's a lot of chapters long, and I'm gonna grab four of those from what's called the first book of Psalms, the first 41 chapters of the book of Psalms is called Book One, and I'm gonna grab four different Psalms, and we're gonna unpack what they have to do with our lives, and this first one
He's called, God, where are you when I need direction?
Where are you when I need direction?
And hopefully, if you've got a Bible, open that up.
If you don't, we'll try to put that on the screen for you.
But here's a few things to say right off the bat.
So the Psalms, literally, it comes from the word Psalmos and it means to make music or to sing praise, which is profound because
I love it because you have this whole book that's like a music.
And some of you are more like left brain thinkers, you know, you like data and analytics and mathematics and science and all that.
But many of you are right brain thinkers.
And sometimes in the church, we don't do a lot of right brain stuff.
We don't tend to lean into the arts and music and movies and all that kind of stuff.
And in Christianity, sometimes it isn't that great at those things.
But the beautiful thing about the Psalms is it wraps
us up in that.
So you write brain thinkers, I love this, but you left brain thinkers, too, because ultimately we all, at some level, connect to music and art and it, because it wells something up in us that gets us into the transcendent, more than just the daily workings of data.
It's like, what does life mean?
What is it about?
It's like when you watch Interstellar or something, and you're like, oh my goodness, all the music is taking you and you're crying, and it's a deeper level of life.
Here's what I love about the Psalms.
They do that through their actual songs and poems and all that kind of stuff.
But it's really practical and it's real life.
It's raw.
It's like one minute, the Psalms are like, I love you God, you're the best, you fill my heart with all the great things in life.
And literally you flip the Psalm over and it's like I hate you God, why I despise you and I want all the children of my enemies killed.
And you're like, wow, okay.
You're all over the place emotionally, David or whoever the writer is.
You are all, one minute you're fine, the next minute you're not, but here's the point, isn't that life?
That is life for you and me.
That is literally how we live our life every day.
One day can be awesome.
The next day is a disaster.
The Psalms have it all.
They speak into real life that when you get that raise and you're super excited, it's awesome.
When your kid gets sick or your spouse gets a diagnosis, it's
awful and you're and it's got all the sounds like how do we live in the confusion?
How do we live in the times of where is God when my enemy seems to be flourishing and my life seems to stink?
What is going on?
That's why all of this connects to us.
So hopefully the next four weeks you'll connect to this and then bring your friends for the next three weeks as we talk about these things.
Here's what one writer hundreds of years ago
John Calvin said, what riches are contained in this treasure, meaning the treasure of the Book of Psalms.
This book is an anatomy of all the parts of the soul, for there is not an emotion of which anyone can be conscious that is not here represented as an mirror.
It's a mirror of the soul.
The New Testament quotes the Psalms more than any other book.
Jesus quoted the Psalms more than any other Old Testament book.
And here's what Philippians, he said, the Christian writer, he said this, I have a confession to make.
This is in his book on the Old Testament.
He says, for years, I avoided the book of Psalms.
And maybe that's some of you.
Certainly it was my story.
I knew that many Christians looked upon it as their favorite biblical book that the church had incorporated these poems into public worship.
To this day, many additions of the New Testament include Psalms as well as of it.
It represents an indispensable core of our faith.
Yet, hard as I tried, I could never get excited about actually reading Psalms.
One summer,
I read through all of them every morning.
They greeted me.
And all of a sudden I started seeing life through their eyes," he says.
And then he says this, I must say, after 20 years now, they are without a doubt my favorite book in the Bible.
And for a thousand years, Jews have used the Psalms and Christians have used the Psalms as prayer books to pray.
Have you ever got to a place where you're like, I don't even know what to pray.
The Psalms are things for worship, all of it, to talk to God.
That's what this amazing book is about.
So Psalm 1, what is it about?
It's a beautiful Psalm.
It's called, one scholar calls it the way of the righteous and the way of the wicked.
And literally what it says, like, listen, if you came to me one day and we were just talking and I said to you, hey, listen, I know the way that you can flourish versus flounder in life.
I know the way toward life and love and beauty and pleasure rather than darkness and death and pain and agony.
You would probably say, okay, everyone shut up.
I want to listen to what he has to say.
I want all the noise of the world to go away and I want to listen to this person who's going to direct me toward flourishing.
That is literally what Psalm 1 is.
The writer starts and he says, blessed is the one, verse one, if you've got a Bible, who does not walk in step with the wicked or stand in the way that sinners take or sit in the company of markers.
He starts to lay out
the way toward flourishing versus floundering in life.
And the first thing says is the word blessed, which is a great word because it means happiness.
If you look at the Sermon on the Mount, even when Jesus starts out the Sermon on the Mount with the Beatitudes, they're called blessed are those who dead it up.
Blessed is the one who blessed is the same word.
It's the word happy.
And here's what I love about it.
This is where the Bible is so practical.
Happiness is the main number one motivating factor of your life.
The number one reason, listen, that you married the person you married.
Why did you marry them?
It wasn't because you looked at them and went, I don't know, this person just like, look at your wife right now, or you look at your husband, if you're married, or the person you're dating in the crowd right now, look at them.
I guarantee you didn't look at that person and go, wow, they make me miserable, but I gotta marry someone, right?
You went, this person makes me happy.
Right?
This person gives me pleasure.
This person gives me joy.
Now, after 20 years, it might be the case that they don't make you that it's amazing.
But at the time, at the time, they made you happy.
They gave you joy.
That is the number one motivating factor of your life.
Where you go and have lunch this afternoon, what you're wearing right now in church.
You didn't look at that outfit and go, I look so terrible on this.
I'm gonna go to church in it.
You dressed up, you looked in the mirror and you went, this is awesome.
I wanna take,
The happiness, your own happiness, it's the number one motivating factor of your life.
It's the reason I've watched Lord of the Rings a hundred times.
Why?
Because the music and the cinematography and the acting and the story, why do I revisit again and again and again?
Think of your favorite movie.
What is your favorite movie?
Think of it right now.
Why have you seen that movie more than once?
Because it does something to your own joy.
It elevates it and you go, I want to actually accomplish this.
I just moved my oldest daughter down in Newport, Orange County.
She's living down there with four other girls in a house and doing ministry and doing a bunch of stuff.
We're very proud of her.
And when we're dropping her off there, this was a couple months ago now, she said, well, we need some plants.
We'll end this plant store.
And a plant store is not something I did so very often.
So I figured we're walking this plant store.
I mean, how do you get any plants you want?
She's like, really?
I'm like, yeah, should we walk in?
And she's like, I love that plant over there.
I walked over and I looked at the price tag, and I was like, wait, hold on, what?
Guys, I don't know if you guys know this.
Plants?
Go look these things up.
OK, I was thinking this is going to be 20 bucks.
I look at the price tag.
This thing's hundreds of dollars, hundreds, like 300 bucks.
I'm like, sorry, what?
We are not doing it.
She said, Daddy, so what did I do anyway?
I bought it for her.
Why?
because I want my daughter to be happy.
I'm a sucker for this.
This is what life is.
It's like, I want you to be blessed.
And what God says here is, I want your life to be blessed, but I need you to follow in my ways in order to do that.
I'm calling you to fly.
And if you don't follow my ways, you're gonna crash and burn in this life.
or in the next life or both, but you gotta follow my ways versus the ways of the world, versus the ways that you wanna follow.
So he says, blessed, blessed.
Now how do you get blessed?
How do you get happy in both temporary and eternally?
Well, he says this, blessed is the one who does not walk in step with the wicked.
Wickedness doesn't mean Hitler, all right?
Wickedness means people who don't follow the ways of God.
And the first thing to say about it is that you are wicked by category, Biblical category,
If you don't have Jesus in your life because you're a sinner, right?
I know that's not a popular concept because our kindergarten teachers tell us we're so unique and oh Joey you're so awesome.
You can accomplish anything and it's like sorry Joey.
you can't accomplish everything.
It doesn't matter how many times I put through Christ, I can do all things.
Through Christ, you give me strength.
I can quote that verse all day long.
I ain't ever going to be an NFL linebacker.
It ain't going to happen.
I can put it on the fridge and go, look, it ain't going to happen.
If you've seen it, it's not going to happen.
There's a sinfulness about us, even though everyone wants to build us up and say, we're awesome and you just need a little tweak.
And I know that we're sinners by definition.
I know it's not popular today, but we do have to understand we are sinners.
And he says, I don't want you to do things of the wicked.
And so it's like pushing against our cultural vision of who we are that we're not bad people.
Dallas Willard years ago, he said, we're willing to admit that we lie, but none of us want to say that we're liars.
Right, by dead.
And that's what the Bible is trying to do.
It's saying categorically wicked.
It doesn't mean you twist your mustache and hurt people all the time.
It just means you're not, you haven't experienced salvation yet.
You haven't experienced the ways of Jesus in your life yet.
And what I love about this is the Bible is willing to tell you things that you don't necessarily want to hear.
It says there is wickedness and I don't want you to do it.
Oftentimes, we don't do that for each other, right?
Oftentimes, just because, like, what's the reason you don't look at someone if they're a total mess, if they're a disaster, if they're cheating on their spouse and you know about it and you don't go confront them?
I remember hanging out with guys in Vancouver and some of the guys were going to the strip joint and doing all these, the strip joint and doing all these things.
And I was like, wait, why isn't anyone calling this guy out?
Well, we want to still be invited to the parties.
So I took them out and I stopped getting invited to the parties because we almost, we almost want to be liked more than we want to,
call people out on things in their life, even though God would go, no, I'm not afraid to call people out on their wickedness.
I don't want you to walk in the ways of the wicked.
I don't want that for your life.
And I'm willing to have you not like me for a while in order to get that result out of your life.
And so he's saying, there's a bunch of things I don't want you to do.
Christianity isn't okay that you just set a prayer and now you move on to other things that it's like, no, no, no.
Here is what I want you to do and not do in life.
And there's a way of destruction, he says.
So I don't want you to live in that way of destruction.
Now, there's a psychologist.
Some of you are going to love this.
This is going to set you free, all right?
Because it goes against the thinking of what our modern culture is.
There's a psychologist named James Davey.
And I talk about this.
If you want, I know we did a series on the problem of life, but this book I wrote came out February.
If you want to copy this, I'm sure
they're there, you can get one.
But I talk about this very thing in one of the chapters of this book, and I think it's just super helpful in regard to being a human being and what this psalmist trying to strike up.
James Davies says this, it's a mistake to interpret a patient who suffers from low self-esteem.
So the Bible's not willing, it's willing to tell us we're wicked.
Think deeply about the negative side of yourself.
And what our culture does is go, no, don't do that.
You don't want to get all dark and depressed.
And that's not good for you.
Think positive thoughts.
Everybody just be positive.
And the Bible is doing something that now modern psychology is telling us, no, no, it's actually doing good to stop for a minute and go, hmm, what about the dark parts of myself?
So James, it's a mistake to interpret a patient who suffers from low self-esteem or feelings of worthlessness as simply suffering from a distorted thinking patterns or thinking errors.
Instead,
What if our negative thoughts about ourselves are actually right?
The feeling of being cowardly may not be faulty thinking at all, but an accurate appraisal of part of us that is cowardly.
Facing that reality rather than denying it,
is the prerequisite to changing.
Many people, instead of being plagued with low self-esteem, are actually plagued with self-love.
So much so that they're unable to love others and cannot see beyond the horizon of their own needs and concerns.
The prevailing view that the depressed person tends to distort reality in a negative way may be wrong.
Recent research has turned this, received wisdom on its head, saying that it's not the depressed who distorts reality
but the so-called healthy population because they remove the positive self biases that are seen in the non-depressed.
It's like saying part of you flourishing is to enter into the recognition that there's something wrong with you and that God is the one who can, you know, in this case, take you out of the category of wickedness.
It's almost like if you've ever seen the movie inside out, you know, that great Pixar movie.
The whole thesis of that movie is, of course, joy is in control.
of this 12 year old girl.
And she's experiencing all these things, but we need to have joy at the center of the controls.
And all through the movie sadness, near the end of the movie sadness, the emotion sadness tries to get the controls of this girl.
And they're all trying to keep sadness away from having the controls.
And at the end of the movie, you realize it's very deep thought.
that sometimes, and this is what the movie goes on to say, because sadness gets in control of this girl's life, and it's actually a good thing for her, because she grows from it, sometimes sadness needs to be in control of your life.
Sometimes you need to receive the fact that the Bible looks at you and says something about you that no one else around you is willing to say, and it's that you start out when you are born in a category of wicked, meaning you're not in relationship with the God of the universe, and you sin, and those sins need to be dealt with, and you can't deal with them.
It's a reality check.
but I love it.
But it takes, listen, this is very important.
It takes humility to receive it.
Can you hear it?
Do you have the humility in your own soul and your spirit, your mind to receive when God says, I need you to listen to me.
You are in this state and you need me.
If you never understand you're in that state, you're never gonna fly to Christ.
Martin Lloyd-Jones says years ago.
So a couple of weeks ago, I was speaking, I love these moments by the way, where God
Something happens around you.
God's trying to teach you humility and the question is, are you awake and focused enough to receive it?
So I was at this place called Wenatchee Washington.
You can look it up later.
Wenatchee, I flew in, had to drive in and flew into Seattle and drove there.
I found out that Wenatchee Washington was like, what is it?
What is this place?
I found out that it was the number one place in the world that exports apples or something.
It's the number one apple place.
And I didn't know that, but there's nothing going on in this city.
And I was like, I don't know.
So I got up and I'm preaching on the Sunday morning and I looked at it at this church.
And the first thing I said is, wow, nothing really going on around here but apples.
And it was like dead silent.
And I'm like, yeah.
And I realized, what am I doing?
The first thing I'm doing is offending these people.
Like, what is wrong with me?
I'm not supposed to offend the audience.
I'm supposed to get them to like me.
Or I'd be like, coming up to Kennex and going, hey, guys, you live here.
And look at all the horses around here.
What do you guys turn your own butter?
Whatever.
It's like, come on, guys.
But I would never do that to you guys, because you guys are, you know, those places are bumping.
So any point being in that moment on the stage, I started feeling the humility of like, oh, I'm dumb.
And God sometimes wants to show you that.
And the question is, can you hear it?
do you respond to it?
Jesus said the only way into the kingdom is to become like a child, like literally the only way in.
Blessed is the poor in spirit, is the only way in.
So some of you, you come in, you're so cool and you're so successful and you're gonna just be beautiful and wonderful and awesome and get a good family and be a righteous person.
He goes, no, no, no, it's the poverty of spirit that gets you into the kingdom of God.
And so then he says this, I love this image.
He says, blessed is the one who does not walk,
So underline the word walk if you have a Bible or stand in the way of centers or sit in the company of mockers, walking, standing, sitting.
That's a progression.
There's three layers, right?
And it's like more and more normal in your life.
If you, it's like you, you walk in something and then you, and then you like stand in it and then you sit in it.
Think about that image for a second.
it's like those sins in your life where it's like you did that sin and then you moved on.
That's like walking in sin or whatever, unrighteous wickedness.
But then sometimes you looked at that thing or you did that thing and you lied or you were greedy or whatever you walked in it, but then you kept doing it and over time you almost stood in it.
You were like, this is becoming a normal part of my life.
And then over time,
you get almost desensitized to it, and then you're sitting in it.
You're not only standing, you're walking, and so you stop fighting sin.
Our culture tells us all the time, you need to, don't worry about sin.
Don't worry about what's wrong with you.
You can stop fighting it.
And it's not good when God clearly says something is wrong, and we go on to stand, to walk and to stand to sit in it.
So what is that thing in your life?
Where culture is telling you, yeah, you don't need to worry about cleaning yourself up.
You don't need to get better.
You know, what are the things that you're walking, standing, and sitting in.
And if you're sitting in it right now, you might not even be convicted anymore.
And that's the scary part.
If you've been in it so long, you begin to go, I don't even know if this is wrong anymore.
That's what he's saying you gotta be careful of.
It's what the culture would say, well, this sexually, this is okay, and this is fine, and this is fine, and this is fine, monetarily, hey, greed, this is fine, and this is fine, and this is totally normal.
It's just become normal to you, to every time.
And of course, you know, those two examples, sexuality and greed, I'm preaching this weekend on
Ephesus chapter five verse one to seven.
He uses those two examples about immorality and he says, you know, the cultures, people are messed up in this way and this way, greed and sexuality.
And I'm like, the church sometimes really gets jacked up about the sexual, like, oh, the sexual sin in the culture, but then they don't get jacked up about the fact that greed is mentioned in the same list.
And it's hard because when do you become greedy, right?
It's easy to know that, oh, I woke up beside someone who's not my spouse, but when do you tip over the line and become greedy?
And we love to yell about all these other things, but then every time you turn on the TV and you're watching, I watch golf and you watch golf and those BMWs are shiny and bright and they're going around the circles.
And you're like, we start to salivate and you're like, oh, I need it by M.W.
My, my BMW is so two years ago or whatever you're saying, it's like that greed and it becomes so normal.
And he's saying, I don't want you to live that way anymore.
And the thing is, if God exists,
And you want to be on his side and you want to be fighting for him rather than against him and the things of the world.
When he tells you there's wickedness and I don't want you to do it, we should probably be saying to ourselves, yeah, we should follow the, if God has told us very clearly, this is how I want marriage to work.
Husbands love your wives, wives respect your husband.
All the mechanical things that he tells us all through the Bible.
Here's what I want you to do with sex, right?
Here's what I want you to do with money.
Here's how I want you to do family.
Here's how, hey children, don't upset your parents.
Hey parents, don't upset your kids.
All of these super mechanical things in life.
This is what I want for you.
This is the kind of flourishing.
And all of them are things that God goes.
This is how I want you to be.
And he's made it very clear.
We should probably focus on those things because here's the thing.
Ultimately, look at verse two, I love this, but those who delight, underlying that word delight.
And here's why I want you to understand that word.
This is one of the most important words in the whole Bible.
Those who delight in the law, whose delight is in the law, listen up the Lord.
Listen, can I just say something?
I read something a long time ago from this theologian.
This is one of the most important things I ever learned.
He said this, he said,
hypocrites, people who think they're Christians and they're not really Christians, like people who aren't really converted.
They're just kind of walking around, you know, liking the things of Jesus.
Those are people, listen, he said, who find Jesus Christ useful, right?
Get me out of hell, forgive my sins, all of that.
He says, what a true Christian is, what a true converted heart is.
And I want somebody to hear this right now for your own life.
It's not someone who only finds Jesus Christ useful.
It's that they find him beautiful.
It moves from like a pragmatic utilitarian to a delight.
Not only have I put my faith, I treasure.
I don't even believe in Jesus Christ.
I treasure Him above everything else in the universe.
That's the goal, that you would delight in this.
Not just believe it.
That this would be what your heart and soul goes after.
I'll give you this example.
When I was in high school, I got a book assignment to read A Tale of Two Cities by Charles Dickens.
And I read that book and I read it like it was an assignment.
I read it because I knew there was going to be a test.
I read it because I knew I was going to have to write a paper.
And so I read this and I read that.
But here's the thing.
After I was done high school, I found myself two or three years into college, walking into bookstores and buying versions of A Tale of Two Cities.
Why?
Because A Tale of Two Cities had gone from
being useful to me to pass a test to being a delight, to being something that I loved.
And one of the questions for you is do you know God or do you actually treasure and love him above all things?
It's one of the biggest shifts and challenges you can have in your life.
And he says, I don't want these people walking in the council of the wicked.
That's a very interesting phrase, the council of the wicked.
Here's the question, who are you hanging out with?
What kind of counsel are you getting?
Who is your friend group?
Of course, hanging out with people who don't line up with all the same exact values of you is a good thing.
Missionally, I tell people about Jesus.
And if all your friends are Christians, that's not always a good thing.
He's gonna be out there.
But when you're coming to the moral questions of your life, who's giving you the counsel, who are the people that you're with that are going, okay, these are the things you need to be doing with your life.
And what God has said, I don't want you
getting entertained by the things of the world.
I don't want you delighting in the things of the world.
I want you delighting in the law of the Lord.
I don't want I don't want this world and the sins to be the thing that spark your interests.
And this is the stuff you get pleasure from because that's where the addiction comes from for sin and the things that God isn't calling you to do in your life.
And so this is why
I hide whenever I'm in a hotel.
Don't tell anybody this.
I hide the book of Mormon.
You know, you open the drawer.
Sorry.
I woke up with a cough this morning.
You know, you open a drawer in a hotel.
There's the book of Mormon there.
I always take it and like chuck it to the back of the, we're putting it on to the bed or something.
I don't want people exposed to the non truth and to the false Jesus, to the false way to find God.
And that's the council.
of the things that are against God.
And this happens a million times in our life every single day.
And I don't want that for you.
And he says, I don't want you to stand in the way of sinners.
I don't want you to do that.
Meaning over time, when you walk through something great, but when you stand in it, what starts to happen is, or you sit in it, what starts to happen is your view of that thing starts to change.
So Tim Keller tells this example as a pastor in New York City,
who for years had a church plant there and he passed away a couple of years ago.
And he talks about the idea that he would talk to all these college kids and they would come back from their first year of college.
And they said, I don't believe in God anymore.
And he would sit and talk to them and say, why?
Why don't you believe in God tomorrow?
And they say, well, you know, I took some first year philosophy course and we read Nietzsche and now I don't believe in God.
But then as he really dug into it and spent time with them, he realized this.
He says, what happened is six months in, eight months and whatever, they started sleeping around with people.
And what happened was that they really liked that and they started working backward from that to their belief in God and realized it's easier to do that if I don't believe in God anymore and they rethought that.
That's the dangerous part of the way we make decisions.
That's the way we walk and sit and stand and sit in the seat of mockers and sin sins in our life, the things that we, and so he's saying, this isn't what I want for you.
I don't want you to sit in the seat of mockers or scoffers.
That's such an interesting phrase because think about,
How many people do you know or how many, how many are you who are mockers and scoffers?
You critique, critique, you complain about the church, you mock, you go on social media and all you do is complain about stuff and criticize stuff, all the things.
And he goes, no, I don't want you to be those people in verse two.
He says, I want you to delight in the law of the Lord and meditate on it.
I want you to be the, the positive people in the world.
I want you to be the people elevating.
I want you to people lifting up Jesus.
And it's interesting that he says the,
You got to meditate on it because you know what that means?
So the law of the Lord is the Bible, right?
So do you just, do you meditate on this, right?
It's the Hebrew word hagah and it means to murmur day and night.
That literally is what it is.
And it's very interesting how much does the Word of God influence your life?
Are you thinking about that right now?
Really practically speaking.
And you don't have to,
you know, admit this to anybody else.
But is this a core way that your mind and heart is shaped daily, day and night, or not?
Are you more influenced by Instagram and TikTok and Facebook, whatever, or this?
Because this is going to define a wash through your brain in vastly different ways than those things will.
And he said, I want you to, I remember years ago, I read in a guy named Kaim Potok wrote a book, he's a Jewish writer, and he tells the story,
of when he was a little kid.
He was living in Brooklyn and him and his little cousin, they were like five years old and they knew all of the town elders and leaders were having a gathering at the local community center.
So they went and they crept up and they looked through the cracks of the walls and he saw all of his uncles and they were dancing with these Torah scrolls.
These scrolls of the Bible and they had the sideburns and the attire on and they're passing the Torah scrolls as they dance and sing.
He said the floor would move and he could feel it.
And he watched them all do this with the Torah scrolls.
And then he walked away and he said this question.
Listen to this, he said, as I walked away, I asked myself the question, do Gentiles dance with their Bibles?
Is that a convicting question?
Do you dance with this thing?
Do you meditate on this day and night?
Is this the thing that defines your life?
Do you see this as invigorating?
This isn't the boring thing.
I was just in, I was just, I know for some people it is boring and it's hard, but you gotta understand this is the action.
This is the, this is the Netflix show.
There's a, go read Genesis.
It's like you're watching Breaking Bad or something.
It's like constant people, and you're like, oh this guy's gonna do this.
It's, it's a brilliant action and beauty and wonder and it changes you and it speaks you because it's a word of God speaking, you're changing your life.
So.
That was just the way at St. Andrews playing golf.
Got the great privilege to do that.
This group brought us over there to do this charity thing.
And so we were golfing there.
And I remember the first morning, I was sitting at St. Andrews, and for those of you who are golfers, that's a big deal.
And those of you who aren't, it doesn't matter.
And when I was in Scotland, and I was sitting there the first morning, I got up because the time change.
And I was up, you know, five hours before I was supposed to be up.
And so I went up to the hotel restaurant, and I took a, got a seat right by the window.
Lady brought me a coffee, a little toast, and whatever.
And the thing that I did is I looked out at the 17th and 18th hole of St. Andrews, I just stared out at it, and I brought my Bible, and I literally drank five cups of Americano.
and read the book of judges, cover to cover.
Now it's a straight, weird book, there's just one, the book of judges, I was killing each other, but he was just, I'm just watching Scotland, I got like, I get this like Scotland music in my ears, and I'm reading judges, and it's like the Bible's amazing.
It rocks.
It changes my life.
And I love it because what he said is I want you to meditate on it.
This is a Hebrew word that literally means that you got to put in work for this.
This isn't just going to happen by default.
You got to be intentional.
It's like being a farmer.
How many of your farmers?
You don't wake up at noon.
All right, you got to get up at 5 a.m. You got to go milk that cow.
If you don't milk that cow, that cow will explode.
Right?
You gotta get, I mean, don't look that up.
I'm not sure that's how it works.
But anyway, but concept is, if you don't melt the cow, if you don't feed the cow, bad things are gonna go.
Right?
He's going, you're willing to put in all this effort to do all these different things in life, but you're not putting in the time and the energy and effort to meditate on the Word of God and to have it shape you.
And by the way, this is the way, verse two is the way you're gonna,
do verse one, if you're going to not walk and sit and stand and sit in the sin of your life, you know, one of the things to help you combat it is actually the word of God.
Think of this, you're probably not as powerful as Jesus, I'm just gonna say, when Jesus was in the wilderness being tempted, what did he use as his weapon to defeat the temptations of Satan?
The word of God, all three times.
Do you wanna do this?
Do you wanna do this or this?
And he used Deuteronomy all three times.
because reading the Word of God, this is how your life is going to change.
I remember Aaron and I dated for five years, and that was hard because we wanted to kind of, you know, come on, let's kissy, kissy, and let's make out, and we used to sit there on a Friday night down in the basement.
Hey, honey.
And I would just like, okay, let's read 1 Thessalonians 4 again.
The sexually moral will not inherit the kingdom of God.
Say it again.
It's like, right?
This is like, it's the word of God that is going to help me deal with the temptations of my life versus just trying to fight them on my own.
And this is what the writer is trying to say.
So what I love about this,
is the word of God is supposed to shape you and change you in such a way that, listen, let me just practically ask you this.
This is supposed to be your normal life where instead of sitting around with your friends this week, I mean, what do we talk about when we get together with our friends?
We talk about, well, Trump and Trudeau and tariffs and all the different stuff we all talk about, right?
We talk about gas prices and the news and cars and all this stuff.
Imagine this week,
Instead of all of that, when you got together with people, you were like, man, man, Deuteronomy, it's blowing my mind right now.
You know, I read in Deuteronomy this week, God's gonna do this and God's gonna call me.
That's beautiful.
Oh my goodness, it's changing my life.
All of that versus just trying to do the fight and live the life without the word of God informing you.
I remember one of my Bible college professors said this one day and we all laughed at it as we were young students.
You know, he said, the chapter day,
keeps the devil away.
And I, and I was like, Bible college student, I would laugh at that.
I would laugh at that Bible away.
What is this little Bible chapter day keeps the devil away.
You need to read the full context and hermeneutically be so true.
You know what I've realized?
After 20 years of pastoral ministry, a chapter day will keep the devil away.
And maybe just to be super practical, because I know Connects is a practical, maybe that's
The thing you take out of this, write that down.
I'm gonna read a chapter of the Bible every day, just one chapter.
I'm not gonna try to get a whole book in.
I'm not gonna put every morning in a wake up.
I'm gonna read a chapter, one chapter.
And then the next day I'll read the next chapter and the next day.
And maybe that's gonna be the lifeline for you, just being very practical in your life.
And then he says, I love this.
He says that you would delight in the law of the Lord, meditate on it the law day and night, day and night, day and night.
I love this because here's the thing.
It's all about what you do.
Listen to me with your time.
That's what the day and night comment is.
What do you do with your time?
What is it?
It's the greatest, excuse me, it's the greatest asset in the world is your time.
Not your money, your time, how you spend that.
So when I dropped my daughter off in Newport, I remember the last night we were there.
I, uh,
My family's okay.
We're gonna go over to her house.
We're gonna paint the house since David We're gonna leave the next morning first thing we're gonna take and I had to preach That weekend and so I said well why don't you take me back to the hotel and I'll sit in the lobby And I'll just work on my sermon because you and you guys go over and paint and set up plants or whatever and they're like are you sure I'm like yeah, yeah, so I go back I'm sitting there working on my sermon and You know 20 minutes after they walk away and
I go, oh my gosh, I've dropped off my oldest daughter at her first house.
I'm leaving her tomorrow.
She no longer lives in my house.
And I'm throwing away three hours that I could spend with her.
This is the most important thing I do.
And I'm sitting here working on this sermon.
Like, what do I, what do I, what do these people barely listen anyway?
You've probably heard half of what I've said, Daniel.
What am I doing this for them for?
I don't care.
But the sermon, I need to be with my daughter.
So I text him, Aaron.
I'm like, come pick me up.
She's like, why are you talking about it?
I'm like, I want to come.
I've made a mistake.
I'm going to regret this.
And she's like, stop being weird.
And I'm like, okay, I'm going to take an Uber.
She's like, do not take an Uber.
Stop being weird.
Work on your sermon.
Knock it off.
And I'm like, eh, because I was like, time is all I get.
It's how important it is.
I was thinking about Warren Buffett the other day.
Warren Buffett is 94 years old.
He's one of the richest people in the world.
He was born in 1930.
His net worth right now is $152 billion.
Let me ask you a question.
I'm going to scan out the audiences here and think, I'm going to point out somebody.
You're a 30 year old guy in this room.
You're a 30 year old guy.
Lift up your hand if you're a 30 year old guy in the room.
Okay, 30, lift it up.
Yeah, I can see you.
Yeah, okay, go ahead, go ahead.
Don't hesitate, yeah, gotcha.
Okay, 30-year-old guy in the room.
Would you, right now, trade places with Warren Buffett?
You're supposed to say no to that, by the way, you're not supposed to say, hmm, I wonder if I, like, 94 years old, which means he doesn't have many years left, all right?
And yet he's got $152 billion.
Do you know why?
Hopefully you said no to the trade, because time is more important.
than money, and you've got more of it than he does.
And the question is, what are you gonna do with it?
Are you gonna meditate?
Are you gonna define your life by this versus something else?
And he says, in verse, later on when he's talking about being rooted, he says in verse three, that person is like a tree planted by streams of water.
I love this.
The healthy person, the person who's studying the Bible, the person who's following the ways of righteousness,
They are someone who is being fruitful, right?
My wife buys a lot of flowers and they all die.
Why?
Because she doesn't water them.
What he's saying is the healthy person ends up living a life where it looks like they're sitting by streams of water that are feeding them.
C.S.
Lewis has this great image in mere Christianity.
He says this, if you want to get warm, you must stand near the fire.
If you want to be wet, you must get into the water.
If you want joy, power, peace, eternal life,
you must get close to or even into the thing that has them.
They're not a sort of prize that God could if he chose handout to anyone.
They're a great fountain of energy and beauty, spurting up at the very center of reality.
If you're close to it, the spray will wet you.
If you're not, you are a main dry.
Once a man is united to God, how could he not live forever?
Once a man is separated from God, what can he do but wither and die?
What he's trying to say is,
your main goal in life is to get near that stream of living water, who is Jesus Christ himself, who gives you life and life to the full.
It is a mistake.
Gordon T. Smith, who is the scholar, talks about the idea that Christ's likeness, becoming like Jesus, oftentimes we go, what would, you know, what would it be like to be like Christ in this situation?
Doing that is actually not the goal of Christianity.
The goal of Christianity is union with Christ, and Christ's likeness is a result
of being close to him.
That's the image here.
You got to get close to the stream of living water.
And then it ends with this image in verse five when he says, therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment nor sinners in the assembly of the righteous because of course the image of being standing is worshiping, standing is receiving salvation, standing is praying, standing is walking with Jesus.
and the wicked, the one who hasn't been saved by Jesus, the one who hasn't trusted in Jesus Christ.
Listen, he is God and he became a human being 2,000 years ago.
And because you couldn't live a perfect life, he lived a perfect life for you.
And then he died in a cross for your sin.
And he took the wrath of God on himself
so that you wouldn't have to feel it.
He became wicked.
This is what Corinthians talks about the idea.
His righteousness got put on us because he became sin.
He who knew no sin became sin.
So that we might become the righteousness of God.
The wickedness that you were in verse one and two got transferred to him on the cross.
Then the question becomes, have you trusted in that?
If you haven't trusted in it, then you're still, you don't get to stand in worship and salvation in the assembly of God.
Have you given your life to Jesus in such a way that lets Him take that for you and that you're going, Lord, I want to treasure
Jesus Christ above all things, that's the challenge of the way of the righteous versus the way of the wicked.
And I want that for every single one of you.
So let me pray for us, Lord, in heaven, we are thankful that this whole Psalm starts with this great image of two ways of living.
And every moment, even Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount says, there's two ways to live your life.
You can live it and build your life on the sand.
And when the storms hit, your life falls apart, or you can build it on the rock.
And he is the rock ultimately.
And I pray if there's hearts and minds in here, right at this moment.
They need to trust in Jesus for the first time that right now they would do so.
They would say, Lord Jesus, thank you for dying on a cross from my sin.
Thank you for becoming sin for me so that I might become the righteousness of God.
I receive that grace right now.
In this moment, I receive that grace and ask that you would forgive me and give me true life.
And man, guys, if that's you, if you're someone who maybe trusted Christ for the first time in this moment,
I would just challenge you to go up to someone at the campuses, whatever campus you're at, the connect desk people, one of the passages that say, I prayed that prayer with Pastor Mark.
I would just love to know more about the church, about Jesus, they'll give you a Bible, they'll pray with you, give you anything, see how they can serve you.
But new life, a line in the sand is what this Psalm is all about.
And I trust that for you guys.
It's been a great time spent in Psalm one.
Can't wait till next week.
We'll see you then.